


table of contents  AIML Level 1 

Introduction to the AIML Level 1 program
pre-requisites
what are the programs after AI and ML Level 1

what is AI and ML? 

what are the three ways of learning AI? - cloud way, tools way and programming way
situation in which each method can be used

what is thinking ? what is learning ?
when do we say that we are learning ?
a typical object identificaiton example
how do humans learn ? how can machines learn ?
y = f(x) model
what are the terminologies in machine learning 
training, testing, validation, model
what is a model in real terms ?


learning from experience
who are the AI leaders
differences between Data Science, AI, ML and Data Mining
what are the different types of learning ?
supervised, un-supervised, semi-supervised and reinforcement



what is the different between learning, model and algorithm ?
model is also called an Machine Learning approach, or Machine Learning Technique
14 different types of techniques
algorithms - around 10 algorithms in each model / technique

how is data represented in AI ?
what are the diffferent formats of data
.txt, .csv, .json, .tsv, .xlsx


performance metrics
what are the parameters and hyper parameters ?
how to choose the best parameters and hyper parameters ?
what are the performance metrics ?
how to choose the performance metrics ?

how to choose the best model ?
how to choose the best algoritm given we have chosen the technique



classification model
10 types of algorithms in classification model
KNN algorithm - K-Nearest Neighbor algorithm
what is K value ? How to choose the K value ?
Impact of choosing a large or small K value
preformance metrics in classifcation model
how to choose the hyper parameters in KNN ?
accuracy, precision and AUC


regression model
types of regression
simple linear regression - explained fully
gradient descent how does it work
how to choose the hyper parameters for SLR like lambda ?

clustering model
overview of clustering, how to cluster ?
overview of K-Means clustering
how does K-Means clustering work ?
how to choose value of K ?
WCSS - Within Cluster Sum of Squares
how to choose the hyper parameters for clustering ?


what are the casestudies and different datasets used in the program

Identification of flowers in the garden
Admission to a university - full dataset and reduced dataset
Finding the price of the house - full dataset and reduced dataset
Diabetes prediction dataset
Credit risk assessment - pay the loan or not 
Stock price prediction


what is training, testing and 


















